python linear damper example tutorial (#33)
osrf/buoy_entrypoint: docs/docs/Tutorials/ROS2/PythonLinearDamperExample.md

# Quick Start -- Simple Linear Damper Controller (Python)

---

## Prerequisite

This tutorial assumes you have followed the steps from the previous
[tutorial](PythonTemplate.md) on creating and customizing your own Python ROS 2 controller package
from the [mbari_wec_template_py](https://github.com/mbari-org/mbari_wec_template_py) template

> repository.

Reviewer: ```This tutorial assumes you are familiar with the steps from the previous
[tutorial](PythonTemplate.md) on creating and customizing your own Python ROS 2 controller package
from the [mbari_wec_template_py](https://github.com/mbari-org/mbari_wec_template_py) template
repository. This tutorial would make use of that in creating a custom Linear Damper``` some phrasing like that maybe.

To begin, you should have a Python ROS 2 controller package that looks similar to:

```
mbari_wec_linear_damper_py
├── config
│   └── controller.yaml
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── launch
│   └── controller.launch.py
├── LICENSE
├── mbari_wec_linear_damper_py
│   ├── controller.py
│   ├── __init__.py
├── package.xml
├── README.md
├── resource
│   └── mbari_wec_linear_damper_py
├── setup.cfg
├── setup.py
└── test
    ├── test_copyright.py
    ├── test_flake8.py
    └── test_pep257.py
```

> with the files modified according to the previous tutorial. The package for this tutorial is named
> `mbari_wec_linear_damper_py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the files modified from the previous tutorial. If haven't already, follow the steps in the above mentioned link to create a package for this tutorial named
`mbari_wec_linear_damper_py`.
```

---

## Linear Damper ControlPolicy

In this tutorial you will implement a simple linear damper controller for the piston in the WEC
Power-Take-Off (PTO). Given motor RPM, it outputs desired motor winding current (interpolated from
RPM->Torque lookup table) to generate a torque to resist piston velocity with a damping force.
Configurable gains (scale/retract factor) are applied before output. In the end, you will have a
working linear damper controller that is very close to the controller running on both the physical
and simulated buoy.

A full example starting from the template may be found

> [here](https://github.com/mbari-org/mbari_wec_template_py/tree/linear_damper_example). Line numbers
> in this tutorial refer to files in the full example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[here](https://github.com/mbari-org/mbari_wec_template_py/tree/linear_damper_example). Line numbers
in this tutorial corresponds to the lines in relevant files in the full example.
```

  \(\left(n\_spec, \frac{torque\_spec}{torque_constant}\right)\) for the interpolant,  
<br/>
  \(\hat{f}_{I}(n\_spec) = \frac{torque\_spec}{torque\_constant} \approx f_{I}(N) = I\)
<br/>
<br/>
- `torque_spec`: Desired Output Motor Torque (N-m) Breakpoints  
  Torque (N-m) is the eventual desired output of the controller given an input `N` (motor RPM) and
  `torque_spec` / `torque_constant` (Amps) are the y-components of the breakpoints for the
  interpolant. The controller actually outputs motor winding current (Amps) to generate a torque
  in the opposite direction of piston velocity to generate a damping force.

These can be configured using the `config/controller.yaml` file.

``` yaml linenums="1" title="config/controller.yaml"
/linear_damper:
  ros__parameters:
    torque_constant: 0.438
    n_spec: [0.0, 300.0, 600.0, 1000.0, 1700.0, 4400.0, 6790.0]
    torque_spec: [0.0, 0.0, 0.8, 2.9, 5.6, 9.8, 16.6]
```

As you can see, as motor speed increases, so does the damping torque. For low RPM (up to 300),
there is no damping.

Initialize these variables in `ControlPolicy` in `mbari_wec_linear_damper_py/controller.py`. This

> example makes use of `numpy.array`.

Reviewer: Reminder to include numpy

                                                      bounds_error=False)
```

Finally, in the `Controller` class, declare/get/set/update these parameters from ROS 2 (as set in
`config/controller.yaml`).

``` py linenums="118" title="mbari_wec_linear_damper_py/controller.py"
    def set_params(self):
        """Use ROS2 declare_parameter and get_parameter to set policy params."""
        self.declare_parameter('torque_constant', self.policy.Torque_constant)
        self.policy.Torque_constant = \
            self.get_parameter('torque_constant').get_parameter_value().double_value

        self.declare_parameter('n_spec', self.policy.N_Spec.tolist())
        self.policy.N_Spec = \
            np.array(self.get_parameter('n_spec').get_parameter_value().double_array_value)

        self.declare_parameter('torque_spec', self.policy.Torque_Spec.tolist())
        self.policy.Torque_Spec = \
            np.array(self.get_parameter('torque_spec').get_parameter_value().double_array_value)

        # recompute any dependent variables
        self.policy.update_params()
        self.get_logger().info(str(self.policy))
```

> The example includes a helper function, `__str__`, in the `ControlPolicy` class to report the
> parameters used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a helper function, `__str__`, in the `ControlPolicy` class for this example to report the
parameters used.
```

    def power_callback(self, data):
        """Provide feedback of '/power_data' topic from Power Controller."""
        # Update class variables, get control policy target, send commands, etc.
        wind_curr = self.policy.target(data.rpm, data.scale, data.retract)

        self.get_logger().info('WindingCurrent:' +
                               f' f({data.rpm:.02f}, {data.scale:.02f}, {data.retract:.02f})' +
                               f' = {wind_curr:.02f}')

        self.send_pc_wind_curr_command(wind_curr, blocking=False)
```

Finally, let's set the Power Controller's publish rate to the maximum of 50Hz. Uncomment the line
to set the PC Pack Rate in `Controller.__init__`:

``` py linenums="79" title="mbari_wec_linear_damper_py/controller.py"
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__('linear_damper')

        self.policy = ControlPolicy()
        self.set_params()

        # set packet rates from controllers here
        # controller defaults to publishing feedback @ 10Hz
        # call these to set rate to 50Hz or provide argument for specific rate
        self.set_pc_pack_rate_param()  # set PC feedback publish rate to 50Hz
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe a note here to remind updating controller names and other updates according to the previous tutorial
